
# Labrador retriever genome assembly  mCanLup5 | ROS_Cfam2.0_v5.3 | "Alfie"
## Background
This repository provides supporting data and information for the Verkko assembly of "Alfie", a male yellow Labrador retriever dog. Raw data was generated by the Schoenebeck and Phillippy groups (University of Edinburgh and NHGRI, respectively). Annotation data was produced in collaboration with the Ostrander group (NHGRI) with the support of a NISC Flagship grant awarded to the aforementioned groups.

Assembly details. Coming soon.

## Assembly
### Latest Assembly Draft (June 2026)
Find fastq.gz and associated indexes [here](https://genomeark.s3.amazonaws.com/index.html?prefix=species/Canis_lupus/mCanLup5/assembly_curated/)  
- Diploid assembly (everything listed below): mCanLup5.ROS_Cfam2_v0.5.3.dip.cur.20260625.fa.gz
- Primary assembly (ie, chr1_hap1..chr38_hap1, chrX, chrY): mCanLup5.ROS_Cfam2_v0.5.3.pri.cur.20260625.fa.gz
- Alternate assembly (ie, chr1_hap2..chr38_hap2): mCanLup5.ROS_Cfam2_v0.5.3.alt.cur.20260625.fa.gz
- chrM: mCanLup5.ROS_Cfam2_v0.5.3.MT.cur.20260625.fa.gz 

## Supporting data
### Genomic Data
ONT, HiFi, Illumina, and 10X data [here](https://genomeark.s3.amazonaws.com/index.html?prefix=species/Canis_lupus/mCanLup5/genomic_data/)  

Note that 10X linked read data was not used in the assembly.

### Transcriptomic Data
PacBio Kinnex data for 15 tissues [here](https://genomeark.s3.amazonaws.com/index.html?prefix=species/Canis_lupus/mCanLup5/transcriptomic_data/)  
 
**Coming soon: remaining Kinnex data for tissues and cell lines, ribodepleted RNAseq**

### Genome browser tracks
**Coming soon

## Analysis scripts
**Coming soon

## Data use
All data is released to the public domain (CC0) and we encourage its reuse. However, we are in the process of finishing and analyzing this genome. To to avoid duplicating efforts, we encourage you to contact us if you are interested in contributing.

## Contacts
Questions? Let's chat. Jeff Schoenebeck (jeff.schoenebeck@roslin.ed.ac.uk), Elaine Ostrander (eostrand@mail.nih.gov), Adam Phillippy (aphillippy@jhu.edu).
